feat (docs): add Crosshatch community provider (#3605)
vercel/ai: content/providers/03-community-providers/21-crosshatch.mdx

## Setup

The Crosshatch provider is available via the `@crosshatch/ai-provider` module.
You can install it with:

<Tabs items={['pnpm', 'npm', 'yarn']}>
  <Tab>
    <Snippet text="pnpm add @crosshatch/ai-provider" dark />
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    <Snippet text="npm install @crosshatch/ai-provider" dark />
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    <Snippet text="yarn add @crosshatch/ai-provider" dark />
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

The [Crosshatch](https://crosshatch.io/) provider supports all of their available model such as GPT and Claude, as well as the querying interface for controlling Crosshatch's custom data integration behaviors. This provider wraps the existing underlying providers ([@ai-sdk/openai](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ai-sdk/openai), [@ai-sdk/anthropic](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ai-sdk/anthropic)), so you can use all existing behavior found in those providers as well.

### Credentials

The Crosshatch provider is authenticated by user-specific tokens, enabling permissioned access to personalized inference.

You can obtain synthetic and test user tokens from the [your Crosshatch developer dashboard](https://platform.crosshatch.io/).

> Production user tokens are available from our [Link SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@crosshatch/link) using your Crosshatch developer client id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Production user tokens are provisioned and accessed with the [Link SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@crosshatch/link) using your Crosshatch developer client id.
```

## Provider Instance

To create a Crosshatch provider instance, use the `createCrosshatch` function:

```ts
import createCrosshatch from '@crosshatch/ai-provider';
```

## Language Models

You can create [Crosshatch models](https://docs.crosshatch.io/endpoints/ai#supported-model-providers) using a provider instance.

```ts
import { createCrosshatch } from '@crosshatch/ai-provider';
const crosshatch = createCrosshatch();
```

To create a model instance, call the provider instance and specify the model you would like to use in the first argument. In the second argument, specify the user auth token, desired context, and model arguments.
You can use Crosshatch to get generated text based on permissioned user context and your favorite language model.

### Example: Generate Text with Context

> Use `gpt-4o-mini` to generate text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses `gpt-4o-mini` to generate text.
```

```ts
import { generateText } from 'ai';
import createCrosshatch from '@crosshatch/ai-provider':
const crosshatch = createCrosshatch();

const { text } = await generateText({
  model: crosshatch.languageModel("gpt-4o-mini", {
    token: 'YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN',
    replace: {
      restaurants: {
        select: ["entity_name", "entity_city", "entity_region"],
        from: "personalTimeline",
        where: [
          { field: "event", op: "=", value: "confirmed" },
          { field: "entity_subtype2", op: "=", value: "RESTAURANTS" }
        ],
        groupby: ["entity_name", "entity_city", "entity_region"],
        orderby: "count DESC",
        limit: 5
      }
    }
  }),

>   system: `The recently ate at these restaurants: {restaurants}`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  system: `The user recently ate at these restaurants: {restaurants}`,
```
